[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I would guess
that each of you watching this
has experienced a place that
feels different, somehow sacred.
Some of you have even made a
point to travel to these places
to see what you may have
access to within yourself.
Freddy Silva has spent
his entire lifetime
studying and experiencing
these sacred sites,
and he's here to tell us
how they do what they do.
Freddy, it's good to
have you back again.
Been not that long
a period of time.
I don't know how many of
these we've done together.
But it's--
>>FREDDY SILVA: I live here.
I've taken up rent.
I've got a tent outside.
It's very practical.
>>REGINA: That's
how you're doing it.
OK, good.
Thanks.
Saving the company some money.
You know what?
In all these interviews, I have
never asked you a very simple
question, which is, how
did you originally--
what inspired you to
become so dedicated--
some might even say
obsessed-- with going
to all these sacred
spots in the world?
>>SILVA: It is an
obsession, isn't it?
>>REGINA: Yeah, it seems to be.
I mean, I've read
all your books.
>>SILVA: Oh, you're the one.
Yeah.
I think it's because it is an
obsession, because it was really
to do with being
an inquiring mind
and seeing what's
this all about?
And that's the worst
question that you
could ask of a sacred space,
because when you tell that
to a sacred space, it
says, well, let's show you
what this is all about.
And it's a never-ending
cycle of experience.
So one experience
leads to the other.
And then you want to find
out, why is this happening?
And then you go off
and research it.
And it's all there, of course,
in musty tomes and things.
But one experience goes
to another experience,
which goes to another one.
And there's no end of discovery.
And that's why I began
to do it, because I
felt that there
was something here
that was of benefit, not just
for me, but for other people.
>>REGINA: But something
had to get you on the path
to begin with.
Not everybody goes
to sacred sites.
What got you out
there the first time?
>>SILVA: Oh, big rocks.
>>REGINA: Big rocks.
OK.
That's all I needed to know.
>>SILVA: I wanted
to be a rock star.
It's just that I had my mind
with guitars and big hair.
It was--
>>REGINA: Got to be
more clear about that.
>>SILVA: I know.
But it really was.
It was about the
experience of interacting
with places where I thought,
OK, it's all very physical.
But it's actually not.
There's a world
between the worlds
when you go to these places.
And it was the fact that I
began to interact and see
the entities that were there,
which I didn't even know
was even possible.
So for me, it was like I was
a skeptic, although I really
believed in the concept
of sacred space.
I was drawing pyramids when
I was three, for god's sake.
>>REGINA: Oh, god.
OK.
>>SILVA: I didn't
belong with other kids.
>>REGINA: There's your key.
That's the sign I was
looking for, drawing pyramids
by three years old.
And you have a steep
history in Egyptology,
and I would even venture to
say, past lives in Egypt.
And it goes further--
>>SILVA: Maybe one or two.
>>REGINA: --I think, more
than that, beyond that, even.
So you came in with a destiny.
All right, so we've got that.
So now let's talk
about-- let's go
down to the basics
of what a portal is,
because a lot of people kind
of confuse it with other things
sometimes.
>>SILVA: I know.
And I think it's important to
clarify because the word begins
to take on all kinds
of dimensions which
have no resemblance to reality.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: Which is
kind of ironic.
No, I mean, a portal
essentially is a place on Earth
where the laws of
physics as we know
them behave very differently.
So it's about the manipulation
of electromagnetism, of sound,
of gravity.
And it allows you, under certain
conditions-- for a minute
or for a lifetime-- to travel
through time and space.
And I'm not just talking
about metaphysically.
I'm talking about also
physically in some locations.
Like in Peru-- and
locals know about people
that go into these
doorways which
are shaped like a T that are
carved on the sides of hills.
People physically disappear.
And they come out
looking very dazed.
And I've met some of them.
And you can't fake this stuff.
You can't fake fear.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: Because that's
what-- they come back
looking like they've stumbled
upon something that they can't
explain.
But yet, it's very beneficial.
Once it sinks in,
it's very beneficial.
So they're opening
up these portals
along the face of the Earth
where unusual things happen.
And the Hopi have a lovely way
of describing it, of all people.
It's in their creation myth.
And they said in the beginning,
when the creator made the Earth,
he sends a person down
to the South Pole--
not the North Pole,
the South Pole--
with a drum, which
is exactly what
you'd take to the South Pole.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>SILVA: And he sits there
listening to the heartbeat
of the Earth Mother.
And he says, I can beat
the rhythm to that beat.
And he gets a sort of a
beat going on this drum.
And there's a sympathetic
resonance between the two.
And they said at that
moment, the Earth
becomes abundant with energy.
And it sends these life
streams to the surface.
And the Earth becomes
abundant with life.
But some places on
the Earth's surface
became more abundant with
this energy than the others.
And they called them
the spots of the faun.
So it's a lovely way to
describe this sort of places
where unusual things
happen to people.
And then, of course,
they'll be the places
where shamans would
go to get information
or where people would
sit for a good time
and leave their body for
a little bit, come back
with information for
the good of the tribe
or for their own
spiritual development.
Either way, it's correct.
And it was all to
do with the fact
that you're basically
giving yourself
some extra tools in which to
navigate the physical world.
And this is something that's
very important right now.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is indeed.
Right now, it looks
like pure chaos.
So you're able to move beyond
time and space, the notions
of time and space, when you are
interacting with these portals.
And I want to ask you this.
Do you think that they were
inherent to the natural creation
of the Earth itself?
Or do you think that there were
helping hands in certain places
from--
there's so many
different species
that interacted with Earth
during its formation.
Do you think there was
maybe some help by others?
>>SILVA: Influence?
I think it's both, because
I mean, the Earth itself
is an organism.
It creates its own
little hotspots
in order to calibrate itself.
It's like acupuncture
points in the human body.
It's the same thing.
But also, from my interaction--
and after 30 years
of doing this and knowing that
you can actually physically
move the energy using
your god-given intent.
And there have been
experiments at Princeton
to prove the power of group
intention in order just
to move the drumbeat
of a computer, which
is one of the best
stories I've ever heard.
So you can actually, using
your right intention,
move energy from
one spot to the next
and then anchor it, which
brings us back, of course,
to those large big rocks.
It's the metal and the
iron and the quartz
in the rock that makes sure
that the energy doesn't move.
So it becomes a
place not just where
the Earth breathes and creates
its own particular movement
of energy.
It's also a place where other
forms throughout the universe,
at different levels
of frequency,
can use these portals as a
way to come in and say, hey,
what's Earth all about?
>>REGINA: And even continue
using or manipulating--
I don't mean in a
bad word-- them,
whether it's to slightly move
the location for some better
effect, they can do that
for themselves and others.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
And we found that when we
were researching the real crop
circles.
Not the man-made
stuff that came later,
but in the original
research, it was quite clear
that they were also
creating these new hotspots
on the face of the Earth,
which would then interact
with the local currents
of the landscape,
the telluric currents,
as science calls them.
And they would interact
in terms of energy
with the local sacred sites.
So it's as if the sites
have been used, abused,
and shut down, in many cases.
The crop circle appears.
Boom.
It establishes a
new energy field.
And then people start going
to the new sacred space
and having their
own experiences,
just as they would, say, in a
dolmen or in a giant's grave
or in a pyramid.
So there is a
certain movement now
where the Earth is
shifting in its own skin.
And that, of course, would
bring a new movement of energy
as well.
The old sites are still there.
And I think they're
maintained by our devotion
to them, because you leave a
little drop of your own light
at these places.
And it's like watering a plant.
The site and the
spirit of the place
says, well, thank you
for remembering me.
And it rejuvenates the site.
I remember going to the
pyramid of Giza during COVID.
We were the only people in the
country, which was wonderful.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And I could literally
hear the building looking at me
and going, oh, thank
god there's no tourists.
Thank you for coming
and honoring me.
I said, it's not a problem.
And it was.
You could actually
hear the building
breathe a sigh of relief.
And it felt so good
being in there.
So there are new places
being born all the time
because the Earth and the
universe is a living organism.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
OK, so this might be
a little tangential.
And I've told you
about it before.
But in the story of the
origins of the species that I
was given from my soul
group 40 years ago,
it coincides with others.
And you'll see pieces
of it in there.
But the key thing was they
called the people that were
indigenous to Earth and
then imbued with that
other-dimensional
mind and energy,
they called them
"portal people,"
meaning there had to have been--
I know it was, as
they explained it,
there was an oddness, a
plasticity between dimensions
that served as a portal that
allowed beings from another,
higher dimension of Earth
that already existed
in their civilization to
come through and merge
with these physical
bodies that we have
to experience this physicality.
Wouldn't it be
that these portals
might have been what were
accessed for that to happen
as well in these various
places around the world where
it was easier for
them to come through?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
It's an easy way to get in.
It's a bit like watching
UFOs going along
from A to B along the
landscape following
the telluric currents, because
you've got a natural conveyor
belt right there.
The portal acts
exactly the same way.
It's a means to an end.
And in fact, NASA was very
helpful in this in 2008.
And I remember the press release
as though it was yesterday
because they used the
words "magnetic portals"
in the first opening line.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And they
said, and I quote,
"The Earth is linked to the sun
by magnetic portals which open
and close every eight minutes."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And where they cross
with the solar wind 1,000 miles
up above the atmosphere,
they create these X points,
as they call them.
And they go from there.
Information comes from
the Earth to the Sun
and possibly beyond that.
But in the Rigveda, they're
already talking about this
in 8,000 BC.
And they call them the
serpents that glide along
the ground that are
mirrored in the sky
with the arrows of sorcerers.
Sorcerer is someone who
works with source energy,
the arrow is your intention.
So they already knew
about this back then.
So yeah, they're basically using
these wonderful tubes of light
in order to connect from
A to B. And the Hopi
did the same thing, too.
If you go into a kiva and you
have the fire pit and you have--
there's a little hole
next to the fire pit.
Nobody pays attention
to the small details,
which is terrible.
>>REGINA: What's
the little hole for?
>>SILVA: It's the sipapu reed.
It's the reed of heaven.
So whenever the
shaman goes in there
under the right
circumstances, there's
a magnetic tube like a spiral
that goes out of the kiva,
connects to the other world,
allows a shaman's soul to leave,
and it allows information
to come back in.
You talk about that in Japan.
You'll say, that's called
the reed of heaven.
And you go to Persia.
They say, oh yeah, that's
the golden reed to heaven.
And it only appears
at sacred caves
on sacred mountains--
no other mountain,
except for that sacred mountain,
which is why it's sacred.
So yeah, they're already
using these A-to-B places
in order to get from
one place to the other.
So it's only logical to assume
that then other entities can
also use that to
come here as well
and have a little taste of
what the Earth is all about.
>>REGINA: Well, in this origin
story, a lot of them came here.
And here we are.
>>SILVA: They found Portuguese
pastries and scotch,
and they figured, I'm staying.
>>REGINA: Oh, those
little egg custard tarts.
What do you call that?
>>SILVA: [PORTUGUESE]
>>REGINA: Yes.
Anyway.
>>SILVA: That's why
my tour to Portugal --
>>REGINA: That's why
everybody stays here,
is for things like that.
Why else be on Earth, right?
So let's go back to the
way these portals work,
because the laws of
physics do not behave
the same way as elsewhere.
And by the way, this is
everyone's divine right
to interact with these.
You don't have to be a
Hopi elder or a shaman.
Any one of us can do it if we
choose to be open, move into it,
and literally be
open and without,
what do you call it, agenda?
Without agenda.
So let's talk about how
the laws of physics work.
So we can--
>>SILVA: I think you just
have to be very open-minded.
You don't even have to believe.
I think if you believe,
it's actually an impediment,
because--
>>REGINA: I agree.
Just open.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
The experience becomes
self-affirming.
And you think, oh, I saw this.
Yeah, but it's coming
from your own head.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: If you just
go there and say, well,
I don't really know what it
is, and you just go there with
an open mind, your
own electrical field,
because we are electromagnetic
beings to begin with--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: --it connects with the
other electromagnetic field.
And as soon as you walk
into these little hotspots,
something happens.
I have a very
technical word for it.
It's called a tingly wingly.
And you feel the tingly
wingly when you--
>>REGINA: Let me look that up.
>>SILVA: And it literally--
and especially on your hands,
because these are the most
sensitive electrical parts
of your body.
>>REGINA: These are
our tingly winglies.
>>SILVA: You get
the tingly wingly
when you walk through the
perimeter of these hotspots.
And you're in this sort of
room where suddenly you look up
and you go, wow, there's
nothing between me
and the rest of the universe.
You feel very naked
for a few moments.
And then you start
actually seeing things out
of your peripheral vision.
And the more you do it,
the more it becomes real.
The more-- even though it's
in its own level of reality--
the visions and the people and
the entities that I experience,
they're very real.
I mean, for me, it's
like an extended family.
I remember one time we
were-- when I was still
learning this craft with a
very good friend of mine who's
an incredible psychic,
who works with the police
in Britain, by the
way, to solve crimes.
And she was just
teaching us the ropes
of how to work with
this energy and how
to understand the
subtle energy and how
to make sure you understand
that it's coming from the field
and not from your own ego and
your need for validation--
it's a big difference
between the two.
And we just cleansed
this area, which
is an old mound, which
then became a burial mound.
And I remember at the
end standing there
with my arms to my side.
And I thought, someone's
holding onto one of my fingers.
And I pulled up this sort
of creature which was naked.
It was about this big.
It looked like it had a
turnip head with a big belly
and little spindly legs.
And I thought, what
the hell are you?
And he went, [GIBBERISH].
I said, it's got
a bit of an ego.
I just put it back down.
And it just looked up at
me like, how dare you?
>>REGINA: What are
you doing in my space?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And he just kept
holding on to my finger.
And then we walked back out.
And he was just holding on.
And we got to the perimeter
of the energy field.
And you get, again, that tingle
on your hand, that sensation.
And suddenly, poof.
>>REGINA: Gone.
>>SILVA: It vanishes.
Yeah, because we were
there to cleanse--
>>REGINA: They only
exist in that frequency.
>>SILVA: Yeah, they only exist
within that particular area.
That's their little portal.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: But it was wonderful
because we were there
to cleanse any negative energy,
any old remnants of old patterns
of thought that were keeping
these entities stuck here when
they needed to go elsewhere.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>SILVA: So they came back
to say, well, thank you
for helping me go
back to where I was.
But that was just--
the onion head was
one of the funniest
people I've ever
encountered, a
lovely little fella.
>>REGINA: Well,
you're telling-- it
reminds me, speaking
of vulnerability.
I felt like I was naked at
a surprise birthday party
when I went into the
cave above the baptismal
well in Ein Karem, Israel.
There, John the Baptist--
they've built a monastery
around that site.
And they have a baptismal well.
But up above it is a cave.
I've never heard anybody
talk about the cave.
Have you ever been in it?
>>SILVA: No.
>>REGINA: You've
got to check it out.
I was at a party that I
could not have imagined.
So much was able to enter
into my field of vision
in that little cave.
Very similar to what you're
talking about, just vulnerable,
because you can't expect it.
And you don't know
what it's about.
And I just sat down like a
five-year-old and watched
and listened to what the message
was, which was incredible.
>>SILVA: I think
you have to trust.
>>REGINA: You have to trust.
>>SILVA: I think if you
trust and don't go in fear.
The worst thing to do about
this is go in with fear.
And it's one of the main things
you learn in mystery schools.
You've got to control the fear.
There's nothing to
be afraid of because
if you take that
in with you, you
will attract things which will
amplify that fear, which is not
what you want to do.
>>REGINA: No.
>>SILVA: So you go in there.
You're in perfect balance.
You're very grounded,
very centered and open
and willing to say, well,
what is this all about?
I want to know more.
And suddenly, all this
stuff comes at you.
And so in my case, I'm trying
to be a better teacher,
to be a better writer.
So I said, I want to
understand what this is about.
So I attract these
things into my aura,
for lack of a better word,
because they're saying, well,
this is what it's about.
Now you have to go
off to a library
and dig out the information.
>>REGINA: Then you do the hard
work back there in your domain.
>>SILVA: Oh, yeah.
They don't do it all for you.
>>REGINA: You take people all
the time to these sacred sites.
So do you find that some of
the people that come along
have fear when they--
let's talk about it
so you can give people
that might be considering this
the range of how one responds,
because it never
occurred to me someone
would be fearful to
encounter these things.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
And in fact, one
of the things that
happens when you interact with
portals for a lot of time--
it's a bit like driving a car,
in that your first day, you're
glued to the wheel
and you're sweating.
And now it's like you
drive for 400 miles,
you don't even realize
you've done it.
So basically, you're in control.
You also develop a sense where
your own auric field expands.
So I get to the point
where I can actually
see through people, which is
a good thing and a bad thing
sometimes.
It's a blessing and a curse.
And the first day, I'll
watch people coming
in from all parts of the world.
And I go--
>>REGINA: Oops.
>>SILVA: I'm going to
keep a track on these two
because they are-- they're
bringing a lot of baggage
with them.
And I have to work
with them a little bit
and bring them down to Earth
and get them a bit more settled,
because I have to tell them
straight out that what you
take in is what you get out.
So if you take in fear and bring
all your baggage and problems,
you're going to go back home
with 10 times that much stuff.
That's not what you want to do.
You've paid money to
come on this trip.
I want you to let
go of the fear.
And if you don't
do anything else,
just trust me that I know
mostly what I'm doing.
And I'm going to take
you to a couple of places
where you will feel a
little uncomfortable.
But it's to get you to accept
that you are in control and not
to let it overwhelm you.
If you can do
that, you'll be OK.
And usually, I send people
down a big, long shaft
at the Bent Pyramid.
It's about 400 feet.
And even I have to bend down
double like Groucho Marx.
It's very uncomfortable.
And there's a large
lady, very Rubenesque.
And she's saying, I don't
know if I can do this.
I'm a bit fearful.
I said, do what you can.
And the moment you feel
uncomfortable, leave.
That's the rule.
At the bottom of the
building, there she is.
And she's going, I can't
believe I just did that.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's wonderful.
>>SILVA: You overcame your fear.
Look at you.
You're in control.
And she goes, I can't
wait to do the next one.
Well done.
You've overcome that.
But then the next step happens
where their auric field
is so expanded that they
begin to see what I can see.
Within 10 days, people
are seeing-- we're
inside the King's Chamber.
And it depends on the group
experience and the group energy.
There's a new
experience every time.
Sometimes something doesn't
happen because everybody's
on a different level.
But people will
see a moment where
I'm talking about something
and I'm looking up at the room,
and it's complete darkness.
And I see the stars
in the ceiling.
The ceiling has disappeared.
And afterwards,
I'll say to people,
well, tell me something
that's happened
to you in the last
few hours while we're
up there, even if it sounds
crazy, because I like crazy.
And half the group
will say, yeah, there's
a moment where you did
this and you said that,
and then it's complete darkness.
But I opened my eyes
and there's no ceiling.
I saw the stars.
I go, thank you.
I knew I wasn't mad.
But one of my favorites
was actually in France.
We went to one of the largest
stones at Menhir called Dol,
and it's not far from
Mont Saint-Michel.
It's not even the
biggest stone in France.
It's just half size.
It's only 32 feet tall.
It took 16 people to hold
hands to go around the girth.
And I said, we're going
to do a bit of toning here
to show you the energy
field and how you can
interact with these portals.
But we're going to
water the stone.
Now one guy said, I'm not
feeling comfortable with this.
I was raised as a Catholic.
This smells of witchcraft.
And I thought, that's cool.
Why you're on this
tour, I don't know.
But that's cool.
I don't want to force
anything upon you.
Just sit here.
And someone, like the
management, said to me,
why don't you draw a
little line on the ground
here where he's sitting?
I thought, oh, this
is going to be fun.
So I drew a little line
exactly where he was sitting.
And then I went back.
We turned, we put some notes
of sound into the stone.
And you can feel
something expanding.
And I had shown before the
energy field around the stone,
it has its own aura.
I said, this is where it is.
It's about 6 feet
around the actual stone.
At the end I
thought, OK, now I'm
going to show you with the
dowsing rods what we've done
to interact with this portal.
Our intention is to have
expanded the energy.
And they'll go, OK, prove it.
And I went beyond
the first mark,
all the way up to the mark
which is 36 feet away, where
the guy had been sitting--
except now, he wasn't sitting
on the picnic table.
He was flat on his back.
And I helped him up.
And I said, what
happened to you?
And he says, well,
there's a moment where
you hit a certain note.
And it's like this invisible
hand just went right through me.
It knocked me right
over flat on my back.
And I said, and?
I can't wait to go
to the next site.
So yeah, it convinced him.
And I said yeah, this
is their way of saying--
a very non-threatening
way of saying-- yeah,
you can interact with this.
And it's for your own benefit.
Now what do you want to
do while you're here?
And then after that, he became
a completely different person
because he was able
to extract the tools
necessary at these
portals to help him
with his particular issues.
And he's a very
different person for it.
So--
>>REGINA: How wonderful.
>>SILVA: And I
didn't say anything.
I didn't suggest anything.
He did the work.
>>REGINA: Have you ever
been in a situation
where the entities
were such that you felt
you should be afraid of them?
I mean, this is our dimension.
I've not.
>>SILVA: No.
>>REGINA: This is our dimension.
This is our domain.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
You're in control.
>>REGINA: They're not going
to hurt you in this dimension.
Even moving over into theirs,
you still have control.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And there's a law
of non-intervention
where you can't intervene in the
development of another species.
That's called a Prime Directive
in "Star Trek," by the way.
And no, I've encountered
entities where they'll say,
you're not ready for this.
And they're absolutely right.
I mean, when I was first
learning this craft,
I went to a place called
the Devil's Den in England.
Guaranteed, it's a
good place if it's
called the devil's something.
So I figured, I think I'm
going to go to the Devil's Den.
But of course,
what I didn't know
is that the Devil's Den
is a very raw power place.
It's one of the
first sacred sites
to be built in the
South of England.
It's not far from
Avery stone circle.
And I remember
crossing the field
and legging it over the fence.
And I heard this big booming
voice out of nowhere,
"You are not going
to come any closer."
And I thought, frankly, the
farmers found out that I'm here.
I didn't get permission to
be here, even though they're
usually quite nice about it.
And I thought, no, I'm
just imagining things.
So I kept walking.
And there was a
definite pressure wave
that's coming towards me saying,
no, you're not coming here.
And I thought, OK.
I'm out.
Legged it over the fence, got
in my car, went to see my friend
the psychic.
And she was making a cup of tea.
And she says, have you just
been to the Devil's Den?
I said, how did you know?
I know everything, yeah,
she does, doesn't she?
Well, because it's raw energy.
You're still learning the craft.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: Come back
a few years later
when you've gained a
bit more experience.
>>REGINA: When you
can handle it better.
>>SILVA: When you can handle it,
because your electrical current
is being raised as well.
It's a bit like going
to Egyptian temples.
You would never go to the Great
Pyramid on your first day.
I take people down to the
south, to the Temple of Philae,
build up from there, up the
Nile, build up your resistivity.
And then you go
to the big prize.
And then you're ready for it.
It was the same with me.
And three years
later, I went back.
And it was like a
red carpet treatment.
And he goes, oh, this guy
knows what he's doing now.
Come in.
But then you get to that level.
And now you're ready to go
to the next level, which
would be the Peruvian
sites, which are really,
really raw power.
And I didn't do that until
my 50s, and thank god,
because then I knew what
I was doing at that point.
And it became very beneficial.
>>REGINA: So a
little discernment.
>>SILVA: Absolutely
>>REGINA: A little discernment.
>>SILVA: Learn to
trust your feelings.
>>REGINA: But for the most
part, don't go in fear,
because nothing's going
to harm you there.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So, OK, let's go to mounds,
because you've been to pyramids.
Each one has a very
different signature
and was built for
different purposes.
And some of the mounds,
like Newgrange and North
and West Kennet Long Barrow.
I thought I did an
interview with someone.
There were giants, giant
bodies found near Long Barrow?
>>SILVA: Only 8.5 feet tall.
>>REGINA: Yeah, only for us.
Yeah.
I'm 5'3 and 1/2.
So yeah, it's a giant for me.
But anyway.
Yeah, and you and I can
talk about that in a minute
because we went to giants
caves in Sardinia together.
So let's go ahead
and talk about mounds
and the energy they bring
versus the pyramidal structures.
>>SILVA: Well, the mounds are
fascinating because most people
think that they're just a
bunch of little rubbish heaps
with a little passage
in the middle.
Turns out that they're
actually built very cleverly
with layers of organic
and inorganic material.
And what it does, it
creates a kind of a device.
It starts to shield the
exterior frequencies.
So when you go on the
inside, and if you
have expensive equipment, you
can actually measure this.
And they found that the
frequency is actually
shielded in such a
way that it draws
the interior frequencies down
to a place where that aligns
with your brainwave patterns.
They get you to stop
thinking and get
you to start feeling the site.
So at the moment
you walk in, you're
already being manipulated
in a positive word--
where a connotation
of the word to start--
stop thinking about
what you're doing,
stop the intellectual
process and get you there
to actually bring it all in.
And places like Newgrange are
fascinating because if you
look at the actual stones,
they're not just rocks.
They're rocks with a lot of
magnetite and a lot of iron.
And each rock has its
own magnetic polarity.
They're able to actually twist
the rock around and place it
in that passage so that there's
a positive and a negative pole
either side of the passage.
So as you're walking,
and again, you're
walking in humility
a little bit lower.
How the 8.5 foot
tall people did it,
I don't because they literally
would have been dragging
their knuckles on the ground.
But you're being moved
from left to right,
left to right all the time.
It's like walking
through a labyrinth.
You're going to left brain,
right brain, left brain
to right brain.
And the prize is the center.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: So when you
get to the center--
>>REGINA: Balanced, corpus
callosum right there.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: The altar.
That's why it's
called the altar.
You are altered.
But in order to be altered,
you got to be balanced.
You got to be the single
person, as Jesus called it.
Only the single people can
enter the Kingdom of heaven.
Absolutely right.
You have to cross
the other world.
You have to cross the
world as one entity.
Not too masculine, too feminine.
No, just right.
Just balanced.
And they found
that this stuff was
happening all around the
world, in France as well.
In Sardinia, it was
the same process.
So it was a sort of a
spiritual technology that
was designed, again, to
get you to go and have
these experiences
when you forgot
that you can do it yourself.
So anybody in India would
laugh at this and oh, no, no,
you don't need
temples to do that.
We call it kriya yoga.
You go within to the temple,
the portal inside you
and you can manipulate
that geomagnetic field
and the geometry that
makes up the human body.
And you can go internally
and develop yourself.
But when you don't believe in
your ability that you are a god,
then we built these temples
for you to imitate the process.
So it's very clever.
>>REGINA: So you could go
find that part of yourself.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
It's like an insurance policy.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: You know.
>>REGINA: So caves
really serve as this.
Often time caves are rounded,
usually most of the caves.
I love going in caves.
I find it very easy to
connect with other realms
and such in caves.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it's just an
informal natural structure.
>>SILVA: And it's funny
how some caves are
more sacred than others and how
some mountains are more sacred.
I was asking this for years.
And I remember
sitting, and I was
standing in front
of CBT or Shiprock,
as they call it in the Four
Corners, it's a terrible name.
It's like a petrified angel
that comes out of the ground.
And I remember sitting there
the first time and going,
what's this about?
Wrong question, because the
world just comes right at you
with information.
And I found myself speaking
in Navajo, which is--
I don't speak Navajo, and I
wrote it down and actually
meant-- it was like a greeting.
I said, where did
that come from?
And I could hear people
around me dancing,
and I began to dance with them.
I'm not a dancer.
I don't do this.
And then suddenly
they're saying,
well, there's a
sacred cave up there.
Why is this-- why
is it a sacred cave
and why are there normal caves?
And why is this mountain sacred?
Boom!
Research.
You start looking
at this and you
go, yes, there's a connection.
All the sacred mountains
are geomagnetic hotspots,
and they're gravitational
hotspots, too.
So it only takes a little change
in the local gravitational field
and the local
electromagnetic field for DNA
to receive different
forms of information.
That's what it's all about.
So that's why they deem sacred,
because you are receiving
a new book or a new piece of
information that you take inside
and you leave the
sacred cave and you
go, oh, that's interesting.
We can-- well, we
could be better people
because of the information
I just received.
So that was the difference.
They could already sense
that there was something
unusual about the location.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SILVA: And you say that
to people in Australia
and they'll just
roll their eyeballs
and said, oh, yeah, we
call those a Djalkiri.
We had those spirit
roads everywhere.
And we were walking
across the desert
and suddenly you
turn left or right
because you can
hear the song that's
memorialized in these
magnetic strips of tape
along the landscape.
And they'll walk for 60 miles
across a featureless desert
to another sacred site.
And it connects all
the sacred sites
with this invisible matrix.
Now, it took a couple of
researchers who were actually
a bit more open.
I think they were from the
University of Melbourne,
if I'm not mistaken,
or Adelaide.
And they said, let's
find out if it's true.
I mean, you can't really make
this stuff up because if you do,
you die.
It's desert.
There are no redeeming features.
They found that if you
used these special tracks,
these invisible energy lines,
to get from sacred space
to sacred space, the margin
of error is less than 3%.
When you take these lines to
go to non spiritual places,
the margin of error is over 67%
>>REGINA: Didn't they have that
experiment with some Aboriginal
people?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so they could
go right there.
They could make a beeline
for the sacred site.
>>SILVA: Yeah, exactly.
And they'll just be--
>>REGINA: But a random site, no.
>>SILVA: No.
They'll be hearing the land.
The energy field is open.
They're taking in all the
subtleties of the landscape.
Anybody can do this, by the way.
Again, it's like driving a car.
The more you do it,
the more you become
attached to the actual
invisible world around you.
And it's very beneficial.
So they just expand their field.
And they're aware of everything,
sounds and subtleties
in the landscape and of course,
invisible people as well.
And that's what guides
them through the landscape.
I mean, 30 years ago
when I was doing this,
I hadn't started dowsing yet.
And then people were saying,
oh, you don't need dowsing rods,
you don't need pendulums.
You can actually do this
if you do it long enough.
And I thought, OK, crazy
person, now I can sit here
and I can tell you where
the energy lines are,
what color they are,
where they're moving to,
what polarity they are.
It's second nature to me.
And anybody can do this.
It's just about expanding
your own energy field
and being in contact
with everything else.
And it comes in very useful,
not just for survival, but also
for developing
your own intuition,
as I call it, and also to
get the right winning lottery
numbers, which
happens so regularly,
but because it's
not part of my--
my path in life to
win the lottery,
to become rich, that I get
the numbers every single year.
And of course,
something happens, just
when I go to play the number.
The gates are already closed
because someone in the shop
recognizes him and says,
hi, how have you been?
And I thought--
>>REGINA: I can't tell you
how many people do this.
>>SILVA: We have a group
actually in England.
We get together every--
when we get together
and say, how much money
have you lost this year?
Oh, I've lost 60 million.
Oh.
And we have a good laugh.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>SILVA: And just
before I left for a trip
to New Zealand a few months
ago, I got it in my head,
oh, you need to buy the ticket.
I thought, all right.
And then I got busy
packing, and I thought, damn
it, I should have got the
ticket, is only up the road.
And then I was in New
Zealand a week later
and I thought, let me just check
to see if the numbers came up.
Yes, they came up.
I won the lottery
again in the shop, just
up the road where I would have
got my ticket, by the way.
And here's the really sad part.
$1.2 billion.
>>REGINA: Oh, Freddy,
you would have wasted it.
You would have--
>>SILVA: And I'm still
driving a 20-year-old car.
I mean, what is up with that?
>>REGINA: Well,
what's up with that.
You're not supposed to
be in control of 1.2
however many billion dollars.
>>SILVA: I've got
to work hard for--
>>REGINA: You've
got to keep working.
>>SILVA: But the point is that
it expands your natural ability.
>>REGINA: It does.
>>SILVA: And that's
how you use it.
You do it for your own
development, for whatever
it is you came here to do.
And that's the other benefit.
You begin to discover
the purpose of your soul.
And that's something that Plato
and Pythagoras were very big on.
And they said, and I quote,
"interacting with portals
or the sacred places in Greece
is what shaped our metaphysical
doctrine."
Now, for Plato to
say that tells me
that he actually experienced
something very profound,
but he wasn't supposed to
talk about it because you
had a vow of silence
because you weren't supposed
to tell about your
personal experience,
because it would shape the
experience of somebody else.
But your purpose in life
is different to mine.
I can't color your experience.
I can't prejudice
your experience.
So I can just say these are
the mechanics behind it.
Now you have to go--
>>REGINA: You will have
your own experience.
So let me ask you about--
I want to get-- there are so
many places I want to get to.
I already mentioned
we went to Sardinia.
Yes, there were mounds that
had their ceremony for, what,
7-8,000 years that had
been going on there,
also that are open
to the public.
Giants inhabited the land.
Giants tombs.
And we got to experience again
that beehive dome like energy
in these places,
which was exquisite.
But if anyone wants
to know about it,
they can go watch
that series on Gaia.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So we won't
need to go into it.
One place I lived for
years and people come
to from all around the
world is Sedona, Arizona.
Pretty accessible for most
people within the US anyway.
Did you ever have any unique
experiences in Sedona?
>>SILVA: Yeah, but
none of the places
that they have on the
local map, which is usually
marked by jeep companies.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
No.
>>SILVA: The more jeep companies
that appear are doing it,
the more portals there are.
So you've got to be
very careful about this.
You've got to trust
your own gut feeling.
There was one actually,
it was a trail.
I can't believe how busy
Sedona has become in 25 years
since I first went there.
>>REGINA: I moved
away six years ago,
and I hear it's
really, really busy.
>>SILVA: So people that tend
to go to the usual places like
cathedral rock or bell
rock is a classic--
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
But no, you've got to
get off where they're--
>>SILVA: --my nice and quiet.
And I got this lovely
little map on my phone.
Finally, I found a
good use for my phone.
It gives me highly detailed
tracks on the landscape.
And I found 50,000 people going
over there and I'm feeling,
but I want to go over there.
Oh, there's a track.
And it's not very well known.
So I just follow that.
The three hours I
was in complete bliss
without taking drugs, which
actually you shouldn't be doing
at these places because
it gets in the way
of the pure experience.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>SILVA: I found
my own sacred cave,
and I sat there for two
hours, away with the fairies,
literally away with the fairies.
And they came back with a
whole set of notes of stuff
that I hadn't even asked for.
And I thought, this has the
makings of a new project.
Yeah, I just went there to
connect with the landscape
and see if I can learn
something new and boom!
There you have it.
So you've got to trust your
own sort of feeling when you're
on the land and just follow that
guidance and see where it goes.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And in Sedona, not to advertise
for more tourists to Sedona,
but it seems that everything
is quite available.
And I mean, I remember
before I even moved there,
going there and going to
one of the sites off road,
you have to find your way to it.
But in any event,
I remember being
in the dwellings that the Native
American populations of far past
had been in and they were there.
You could see them
walking around.
I actually went into a
chamber and was witnessing.
It shocked me at the time, but
like a 12-year-old girl giving
birth and such.
I mean, it's all right
there and available.
>>SILVA: They're
never left away.
>>REGINA: It never left.
>>SILVA: They never left.
>>REGINA: No.
>>SILVA: I mean, the Sinagua--
I love the Sinagua.
And they're just South
in Montezuma's castle.
Terrible name again.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: That's a lovely area.
Not that I'm trying to
bring more people there.
But the thing is that
the people are still
there because when they died
before they left the body,
they would say, well,
what does the tribe need
for its continuous development?
Because it's a place where
not much water exists,
for one thing.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: So they
would say, well,
we need more rain because
otherwise the crops
are going to fail.
So when they die, the spirit
goes back into the other world
and literally, within
minutes, it starts raining.
So they're in the elements
of the actual place,
and I just love
hanging out with them.
So just because
you're dead doesn't
mean you can't be useful.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And so and Wupatki
Canyon, that's another place.
There's a cliff dwelling
there, which I love going to.
Now that you have to
go on a guided tour
because you became
a bit more popular.
But if you get to
know the people there
off the beaten, off
the record, they'll
say, well, come back
after hours and I'll
bring some sandwiches
and some nice water.
We'll go and talk.
>>REGINA: That's all
you want to do it.
Oh, my gosh.
OK.
We only have seven or
eight minutes left,
so I've got to get to--
I know.
>>SILVA: Let's speed talk.
>>REGINA: OK.
A couple of other things now.
Medieval times.
And I'm bringing this
up because for people
who aren't going to caves and
they're not going to mounds,
but say, they're in
beautiful cities of Europe
and such where incredibly
sacred temples have
been built over sacred spots.
There is iconography
that had to do
with this, like the green men.
Tell us-- Rosslyn Chapel.
Tell us what to look for in
these places, if that's where
we're going to be heading.
Which are some of the most
sacred sort of cathedrals?
You know.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I mean, just because you've got
urbanization around the world
doesn't mean the
portals disappeared.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: I mean, there's one
in the coffee shop downtown
Portland where I live.
There's one in my living room.
It used to be an
Abenaki sacred site.
There's one in Central
Park, and there's also
one underneath the
obelisk in Central Park.
That's why the Scottish Rite
masons put that obelisk there
to tell you, boom.
Around the perimeter of this
standing stone is a portal,
and it's honored.
So back in the Middle
Ages when the church
was taking over
the whole of Europe
and they were literally
destroying the sacred sites
or they would superimpose
their buildings on top of them,
the peasants, for lack of a
better word, would say, well,
where are the sacred sites?
Oh, you have to come to church
now because we're the new power.
Well, that didn't stop the
stonemasons from going,
well, we can work with that.
So they created this
image of The Green Man.
And in one case, in Portugal,
a Green Woman, very rare--
Actually I found The Green
Woman in a Templar building.
I went, oh, finally.
There's The Green Man, because
he's the God of vegetation.
He's the-- the horned
God, the Horniman.
This is where the term horny
comes from, believe it or not.
The man who has the fecundity
of nature and he's always
has these oak leaves coming out
of his mouth and his nostrils
and everything.
So wherever you see this
figure in churches in Europe,
and there are more images of The
Green Man in churches in Europe
than there are images of Jesus,
which tells you something
about the power
of The Green Man,
and that's where
you stand to let
that's where the
telluric current flows
through the building.
So it's a little
nod to the locals.
They're saying, yeah,
just because there's
a new building here doesn't
a mean you can't enjoy
the energy of the temple
because you stand here
and you get the tingling wingly.
And when the church finally
cottoned on to this,
they said, no more Green Man.
So the stonemasons
decided to carve dragons.
So if you go to
Mont Saint-Michel.
If you want to know where
the current goes through,
start in the cloister.
Look at the detail
above you, not
on the ground, detail above you.
Look at little dragons with
little things coming out
of their mouths
and you eventually,
you get to the original
altar, which now you
have to ask politely to go
and see the original altar.
And you get the
tingly winglies again.
So again, just because
we're urbanized
doesn't mean they went away.
But the trick is they are so
much more powerful than others
because they're being used.
They're being-- our prayers and
our thoughts go to these places.
>>REGINA: Top three
most powerful in Europe.
>>SILVA: Oh, God.
>>REGINA: In Europe.
And I know it's hard.
>>SILVA: That's a
terrible question.
>>REGINA: OK, five.
You could say five if you want.
>>SILVA: That's
really difficult.
My favorite-- it depends
what I'm working with,
and that goes for anybody
else, what I'm looking for.
Tumar in Portugal, the Charola
or the Rotunda of the Templars,
because that's very big
on my mind all the time.
That's a very powerful.
Chartres still is.
There's a one also around
the corner from Chartres
that nobody goes to,
built by the Cistercians.
And it's about a
quarter of a mile away,
and I can't remember
the name of it,
but you'll find it if
you're looking for it.
It's much nicer energy
because nobody goes there.
>>REGINA: Oh, I
haven't been there.
I'll have to check it out.
>>SILVA: Very, very nice.
And another one--
ooh, what would I say?
>>REGINA: So we got Portugal--
>>SILVA: Kilpeck.
>>REGINA: Where's Kilp--
>>SILVA: In a--
which is now sort
of border of England and Wales.
And it has some very interesting
images of the sheen and the gig
in there, which is the woman
with the wide open vulva
to show that this is where the
Earth energy is very potent.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: That's what
the symbol is all about.
It's a very unassuming old
Celtic Christian church.
Incredible energy.
>>REGINA: Oh, my gosh.
>>SILVA: Freestanding
stones outside.
>>REGINA: OK.
Got to do that.
Just went to Tintagel recently.
Certainly get a little
Green Men there.
And Green Man and
some other images,
including some of the old
Roman stones of the day.
But that's a pretty--
Tintagel is pretty
spectacular energetically.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Especially the cave, and
especially the tube that's
actually inside the
ceiling of the cave
that they had to close up
because the island is hollow.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: So they used to do
an initiation ceremony in the.
And you watch the-- the idea's
that you watch the sea coming in
from both sides.
And you climb up and climb up
to get away from being drowned
and you're conquering
your fear because you're
going to be drowned.
So the sound is really quite--
>>REGINA: I didn't go down.
>>SILVA: People
actually do this,
but they used to have a little
hole, a little, again, a tube,
and you go into
this magnetic portal
because the whole island is a
geomagnetic hotspot, by the way.
>>REGINA: It's incredible.
>>SILVA: And you go into
this womb, a cave womb,
and you appear at the top,
which is now what is essentially
a well at the top of Tintagel
because they closed that off
for safety.
And you used to
come out of there
and you declare
the newborn person,
and then you go
to the foot, which
is on the edge of the cliff
and it's still almost there.
You put your right
foot in there.
And at the winter
solstice, the energy
comes from the church
on the opposite side
of the cliff, which is the
dedicated to the Mother
of the Gods.
On the winter solstice,
the energy of the sun
aligns with the telluric
current, goes down to the ocean,
up the hill, right through your
foot and up your spine to here.
It still works to this very
day because so few people
know about it.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, I found it spectacular.
Um, OK, we have very
little time left.
But one thing is NASA finally
started recognizing such a thing
as portals on this Earth?
>>SILVA: Yes, 2008.
The wonderful press
release that said,
oh, magnetic portals
open and close
every eight minutes from
the surface of the Earth,
connect to the solar wind
and they go to the sun.
And possibly from
there, everybody else.
I think that they go to
the belt stars of Orion
from there, because every
culture on the planet
talks about the belt
stars being the biggest
portal in the universe from
where the gods originally
came from and where
in three countries
that I've heard in the
Pacific, where humans also
came from originally, a
long, long, long time ago.
We don't know when.
And that apparently is
one of the biggest portals
in the entire
universe, which is why
we have the three pyramids
mimicking the belt stars.
Which is why in New Zealand
we have the same connection.
They're everywhere.
And today you can still
go to these places
at the right time of year,
under the right circumstances,
and link in and
connect with the gods
and bring in the
information and put them
into the little basket
of knowledge, which
is why when you see the
images of people holding
those little baskets in culture,
in Yucatan or in Sumeria, that
is the wisdom keeper
and the energy
and the information that you
got from accessing the portal
is in that basket.
You are the wisdom keeper.
It's not a man bag.
It's a very important sacred
basket of information.
>>REGINA: Well, so
much more exciting
than having one's nose buried
in their Instagram feed all day.
>>SILVA: What?
[LAUGHS]
Never heard of it.
>>REGINA: This is
just-- it's just
such an exciting world that's
out there if we care to go.
So final thoughts, Freddy,
before we sign off.
And also, where are you going
in the coming next couple
of years with your groups?
>>SILVA: Well, um, the main
thing that I really wanted
to share, and this is the reason
why I sort of wrote the book
in the first place--
I didn't really want to
write a book this year.
I wanted to take a
sabbatical, and then it's
like, well, why don't you talk
about your personal experiences?
Because we need them right now.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: How you ended
up being who you are.
And I thought, who
would be interested?
Said, the whole world.
Really?
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
Yeah, I read it.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: OK.
Who am I to disagree
with public opinion?
I think I'll write
about my experiences.
And actually, it turns out
to be a very good timing
because we need this
right now, to show
that an ordinary person like me
can become who I am and do what
I do by acting and working with
these places around the face
of the Earth.
It will happen for you as well.
So if it's beneficial
for me, it's
beneficial for everybody else.
So it's like a self-help
manual in the end.
So this is my best advice, is go
out and experience these things
because they might
be in your own lawn,
they might be in your own living
room as they are with mine.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: So I'm
still touring around.
I just announced two tours
to Portugal, back to back
and they sold out in 50 seconds.
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
>>SILVA: That surprised even me.
I spoil people on tour.
I really do.
>>REGINA: I've never been
on one of your tours.
I'm gonna have to.
>>SILVA: You should come along.
>>REGINA: See if I can--
>>SILVA: A lot of spiritual
work, a lot of fun afterwards.
And yeah, the dinner's
gone for four hours.
And then, of course, there's the
what I call serious research.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
serious research.
I will-- I will text you to find
out when all that's happening.
Freddy, thank you
so much once again.
Really, I'm so glad you're
telling your personal stories
because it makes it
more visceral for people
and to understand,
yeah, that sounds juicy.
I could do that too.
Yeah?
Instead of just theoretical.
So thank you so much.
>>SILVA: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: And again, the
book, I read the book.
I think it's very, not only
interesting and entertaining,
but useful for people who really
want to start on a journey.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So thank you.
Again, the title of
the book is "Portals,"
and it's a wonderful guide to
the magic and possibilities
to engage with in these
sacred spots on Earth.
Freddy's website, meanwhile,
is invisibletemple.com.
Meanwhile, if you'd like to
learn more about these places,
you can also watch
our Sardinia series,
as I mentioned
earlier here on Gaia.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on "Open Minds."
[AUDIO LOGO]